---
layout: post
title: Funge The Internet
date:  2024-03-26 13:44:23
---
Connectivity has hit a critical mass. Technology is in a critical mess. Content generation has gone viral. Everyone’s a self-facilitating media node. Every second YouTube ad is a geezer hawking a Get Lambo trading secret course. Sweet shop owners are bagging up Flumps suggestively on TikTok live in the hope of selling some out of date Pick N Mix to Dubai. Scrotes pranking unsuspecting homeless people for views. Anyone with a voice is on the street in LA doing a surprise duet with someone else with a voice. Fitspo influencers still have codes for leggings. 

But they’ve been joined by AI powered pyramid schemes of content juicers extracting the final pulp from Fight Club reposts to make it to a level where they might get a few dollars for a hit video. They’re subtitling and re-posting everything from the history of content. It’s like drinking from the end of a bottle of beer that’s been passed round a party of people with gum disease.

They all want to be seen. They need to be seen. Lives tangled with view counts. Success is visibility. Views as dreams. Manifest my audience.

Creators approach like wet babies. Trying things out and seeing what happens. Sometimes they get a pat on the head, a smile from the machine to suggest “yeeeees my little friend, more like that pleeeeease....”.

But they’re suckling from the (deliberately) inconsistent teat of the algorithm. Sometimes I do this and milk comes out. Sometimes I do the same thing and it doesn’t. Keeping the creator in a state of helplessness. Eventually realising that there are some things that work better than others. 

But most importantly of all, gradually conditioning them on how to be a **‘success’** on **‘the platform’**... 

- Post a lot - every day - multiple times a day (being highly productive makes you a ‘good’ creator in the eyes of a machine that needs a huge volume of content to feed its audience)
- Be consistent (the machine loves it when it knows that your video is going to appeal to an audience the same way the last one did)
- Keep people engaged (and on our platform not someone else’s)
- Interact with other people (making other people make more content by keeping them feeling good is important too)

Everyone knows this stuff. It’s all part of the game. I’m 


The algorithm playing it mean to keep ‘em keen. A desire to be demanded. 


The user experience. (I used to not like the term ‘user experience’ because it was druggy and felt like people were being used. Now I think the term is perfectly apt.)

Exponential content. 

A perfectly honed bottomless dopamine mine. We’re all one micro-movement of the thumb away from ‘the one’ but it never comes.

 

Well maybe it turns out that it’s much cheaper to get enthusiastic amateurs with big dreams and low expectations to make content for you. They’ll bend to the demands of the algorithm in exchange for a few hearts and a comment or two. Not like those ‘professional’ content makers with their uppity ways. We’ll show them 


